              SC-15 Tacc Booth Tutorial Proposal
                      Robert McLay

Since 2009, TACC has been running Lmod as our standard module system
replacing the TCL/C based environment module system.  Lmod is a modern
module system which solves many problems we were having, including
support for the hierarchical module system Bill, Karl and Tommy
created.  Also in 2009, I release Lmod as sourceforge project.  New
feature and improvements has continued as well based on 
feedback from users and site around the world.

Since that time the number of site using Lmod has increased.  It is
used at sites such as NASA, MIT, Harvard, OSU, NCAR, Stanford in the
U.S. It is also used around the world including Norway, Israel. New
Zealand. The Juelich supercomputer center just installed Lmod on their
latest cluster.

The Lmod Booth BoF has been a success for 4 years running.  Bill Barth
gave the first one at SC 11 and I have been giving them for the past 3
years.  There have been 15 to 20 people (all non TACC employees) at
the recent ones.  The audience has ranged from people who have never
used Lmod to seasoned users of Lmod who want to know about the latest
features. 

Given this wildly diverse audience, I propose to break up the
presentation into three parts.   The first part will be a presentation
of a brief discussion of what Lmod is as well as what is new. This
will be about 15 minutes long.  The next part will be a general
question and answer session. 

The third part will be  hands-on.  I will create a single VM
that will have Lmod and some other tools installed that participants
will be to copy to their laptop and try out on their own while in the
booth.  Obviously, once the presentation is over they will be able to
take the VM with them as an example of working software.  I've
sucessfully handed out VMs at SC 14, ISC 14, XSEDE 14 and ISC 15.

In order to entice a diverse audience, I plan to put together several
independent and optional hands-on exercises that will allow interested
participants to explore topics that interest them. Among the likely
possibilities: how to install Lmod without root permissions; how to
test an installation, how to track module usage.

I will ask a few members of the Software Tools group to assist during
this hands-on session.  

